
                      Computer Science 354 - Networking Project 1
                      
Date : 8th August 2005
Programmers : Abrie Greef(13557343) & Andrew Mori(14111594)

1) To view our code please see the following files:
              - server.java
              - client.java
              - serverThread.java
              - REP_MSG.java
              - REQ_MSG.java
              - makefile
            
2) We have used 5 classes up until this point in the project:

    Server class : This class only consists of a main() funtion which is primarily there 
                   to "listen" for a client which is attempting to make a connection and 
                   ultimately send a message to the server. The main function attempts to 
                   create a "listening" socket on port number 3000.
                   
                   Once the Serversocket has been created the server then proceeds to poll the
                   port. If a connection is recieved the server will
                   then create a thread to handle the request message so the server can
                   continue polling for other client's attempting to send messages.
                   
    serverThread : This class extends class thread and implements runnable. It's constructor
                   recieves a socket passed from the server class and assigns this socket to
                   a client socket in its own class.
                   
                   The "main" function in this class is the run function. It is invoked when 
                   the thread is started. An input/output stream is now needed to communicate
                   between server and client. In/Out messages are created to send and recieve
                   messages between the two as well ( the message protocol has been defined 
                   in the respective message classes ). 
                   
                   The thread then proceeds to check if the client is connected. If true, then
                   the message is recieved in the form of a request message. At this point the
                   thread simply prints out the message. Perhaps later on in the project the 
                   message will have to be validated at this point by means of a data base 
                   perhaps, but for now I assume this will suffice.
                   
                   A reply message is now sent. The way in which the message protocol is 
                   defined will be discussed later.The replied message is then written to the
                   ObjectOutputStream and is so handled by the client. From here 
                   the client socket is closed and finnally the thread should terminate.
                   
   Client Class :  The Client class has its main function which tries to connect to port 3000
                   where the server is listening. The address of the server is specified by the
		   first parameter in the console, eg. java client localhost. When the client 
		   connects to a server, a new request message is created and sent to the server.
		   The client then tries to read a reply from the server. This reply will later
		   (project 4) be handled by the client. At the moment the message is printed.
		   The client now proceeds by closing the connection to the server.
                      
   
   Request msg  :  Both message classes implent serializable. The constructor for this class
                   creates the message. The constructor recieves 5 parameters, namely an id,
                   a type, a password, a message content which is an Object and a request
                   resource. The message is constructed here and recieves a date from java's
                   date class and methods. A simple printing function to display the message
                   is also included.
   
   Reply msg    :  Similarily to the Request message class, the constructor of the Reply 
                   message class is used in constructing the message. The constructor 
                   recieves 2 parameters, an id and a message response which is also of
                   an Object type. The parameters in both cases seem redundant but there
                   uses will become obvious as the project gains momentum.
                   
                   Once again the message is "time stamped", if you will, by java's date
                   class and methods. The class also has a simple printing procedure.
   
   
   3) Understanding of client-server socket programming:
   		   Client-server socket programming is implemented in the following way.
		   A server opens a server socket on a port. The server then polls this port
		   for connections. A client can make a connection to this port at the server's
		   address and opens a socket between the server and the client. These two can then proceed to send
		   data between them until this socket is closed. At any given time, the server may have
		   any number of clients connected to it and be servicing them.